so in this video we are going to continue our
discussion on sets and what I've done is I've opened up
the previous project that we've been
working on because ultimately in the
challenge which will come in the next
video we are going to be using the heavenly
bodies for that reason I'm creating
these files in this particular project
I'm gonna create a new file to work on a
new main so we don't affect any other
previous code so just normal create
a new class will call this one SetMain
and I'm going to do a psvm and press tab to create our own main method like so
we're going to do is finish of our
discussion on sets and we are gonna start by looking at
the remaining mathematical operations
that are usually performed on them
now we already seen in the previous video
how to create the union of two sets using
the ad OR method now this is one of
what the oracle documentation
called bulk operations that can be
performed on sets and what I'm going to do is
just open that link up so you can have a
look paste this link which you can see on the screen
and this is the documentation and looking
down the bottom of the page you can see
that the bulk operations are described
here in detail in particular in
sets when applied they perform
standard set algebraic operations
I won't go into details on that now but you
can read up on that we're going
to use some examples to look at how to
perform set intersection indifference as
well as checking if one set is a super set
of another or whether the
second set is a subset of the first
which effectively amounts to the same thing
so what we going to do is start typing
some code and do check out that link
it's got some interesting information in
there about bulk operations that are
available for set so going back to the code
we are gonna start by creating 2 sets one is the
set of all squares and the other is gonna be
set of all cubes of the numbers from 1 to
100 what we're going to do is type....
.....
....and we're going to now
create the various values for both
the first one to do is create first a for loop to loop through and process the
numbers 1 to 100 so...
.....to get the square
of each element effectively or each preference of
i so the first time will be 1 x 1
2 X 2, 3 X 3 etc then we are going to do cubes as well.....
...so that's added those as you can see into
our set so we now got a hundred
elements in each set and just to
confirm that we can actually use the.size check if we have got we think we
got in theri and we can come down here and put....
.....
...so run this program to
confirm that it does work
100 squares and 100 cubes as we would expect now we already seen how to get the Union when we created the
set of all moons in the solar system or at
least the ones that we typed in not
everyone in the solar
system itself now because checking nearly
200 numbers that will be printed in a
chaotic order is too much like hard work
we are just gonna print the size of the resulting set
to confirm things are working so to do that so after
the printout I'm gonna do... and what we are gonna be doing here
is we are putting a parameter in their called squares which is going to add the first 100 or the elements from the
square set into this one we are using that in the constructor so it initializes it
with those values we are also going to use the add all....
.....
...and run that and the result is we get union
contains a 196 elements now because this bulk operations are destructive what that
means is that they modify the set that
called upon the program that we
typed in created a new set containing
the members of squares on line 20 and
then of course on line 21 we did the add all to add the cubes entries as well
so just to confirm that nearly all the
collection classes have constructors that
take another collection and use the
items in that to populate the new
collection and that's why we did on line
20 and also created a new variable on line 20
because bulk operations are destructive
which means they modify the set they are called upon
so by creating a new hash set
we are able to make sure that we are not affecting any
existing set that we've previously
created so we use it initially too
create passing squares to constructor for
hash set which added those entries and then
using the .addall to add in the
entries from cubes as well and you've
noticed when I run that we didn't get two
hundred elements we got a
196 elements
Unio contains 196 elements and we know that
the intersection must contain four
elements as a result so let's create the
intersection to check that and then
ultimately see the sum value in terms of
size for both should equal the total number of  elements we defined
on line 11 and 12 or actually processed on line 14 and 16
so what we do we can type....
.....
...and lets go through and calculate this we are going to print the four
values which themselves which will be very informative so we are gonna use a square root and CBRT methods
of the math classes to show the square root and cube root of each elements to confirm that we are on track put....
.....so lets go
ahead and do that so put...for each to go through each
element in the hash set...
.....
....and both of these methods returned
doubles which you would expect so if run
that now and we need a space their so close that down and add a space run it again
196 is a square of 64 on the cube of 16
1 is a of 1 and the cube of 1
64 is a square of 8 and the cube of 4.0 729 is the square of 27 and the cube of 9 and that is the 4
entries that are intersection so in set theory 2
differences are defined symmetric
difference and asymmetric difference the
Java set interface defines a way to
obtain the asymmetric difference of two
sets using the remove all bulk operation and
that remove all elements in one set
from another now our current example has
an intersection of four elements and a set size of 100 so
actually checking the results set will be
extremely tedious so will switch to
smaller sets just to see removal in
action and this is actually good time to look at
the interaction between the collections
framework in Java arrays so that we can
use that to create our sets now the
collections interface suggests that all
classes that implement collection should
provide two stand constructors the first one
should take no arguments to create an
empty collection and we've used that quite extensively
but the other one takes a collection argument to
initialize new collection with all the
items in the collection that is passed
to the constructor and of course we've
used that in this code and talked about that
and seen it in previous lectures as well but
this is only a suggestion because
interfaces do not have constructors so
this behavior can't be enforced
for that reason but all the current
collection implementations do this
currently and we've used it on early examples
to initialize a set
before creating the union and
intersection so the arrays class also
provides an (Arrays.)asList method that used to
return a list view of the elements in
the array
in fact it actually uses an ArrayList so
gonna type on some code that we can
quickly get to the declaration of the
(Arrays.)asList method and then have a look at
the comments for it so what I'm going to do
is below here start typing...and start
with....
....
.....
...using that as delimiter so we
can get each word that's in a string and
as a separate entry in our string array then we are
going to do
......
...which is our string array created on
line 34 once we've done that we can do
something like this....
.....going through each item
in the set and print it out
...and run that to make sure it does work and of
course we are not guaranteed for them to be in any
particular sorted order but you can see
all the words are actually appearing on
the screen so it is working if you
have a look at the (Arrays.)asList method go their and
click on it click
on that we'll have a look
first you can see this method and the
related to array
method of collections are attended as a
bridge between the two API's so the (Arrays.)asList
methods on the screen provides a
convenient way to initialize a
collection with a list of values as there is still not set of literals in Java
so that's what we're using it for in this
particular case now to see what remove
old does and why it's called the
asymmetric difference this example
creates two sets going back to the code
when it does it's going to create the
asymmetric difference between those
two so the example creates 2 sets and calculates the asymmetry
difference both ways around so it's
called a symmetric difference because
set one takes set 2 is not the same as set
2 takes set 1 now a diagram is always useful
for when dealing with sets so what I'm going
to do is bring up on the screen and the
circle to the left in green represents
the set nature and the one the one on
the right is divine so when they overlap it's
the intersection of the two sets and the
set of everything in both is the Union
now the asymmetric difference nature take
divine will contain all the green words
and divine take nature will contain the
blue ones which is what the following
code we are about type in actually works
out so bring the graphic back on the screen once we typed in the code so lets type...
.....
......
...so we created those but lets add these as well so will do.....
.....
ok so lets add them both again using the same method and
again as list provides a convenient way
to initialize a collection with a list
of values because of course there is still no
set or map literals in Java so we sort
of simulated that by having array here you
can see on the screen and we are using the add all and then .asList
to convert ultimately we can get
those into the set in a convenient way
so what I'm gonna do I'm
to stop this video here in the next video
we're going to continue work on
this particular piece of code we want to go
through and start looking at this set
asymmetric differences and talk more
about that and ultimately explain this a bit more as well so
I'll see you in the next video